With that in mind as we dive
into the first section,
which is about reviewing the market
really, because you can have this
brilliant idea and
you can have this really great concept.
But actually it can be quite hard
if it's already a very crowded
market in order to distinguish yourself.
And I could give you
a real example of this,
that I was working recently with a guy
that had built a VPN for people.
And it was a really good VPN and it was
very, very fast and technically really,
really good.
But the VPN market is so
crowded and with other players that
are just pouring millions into
marketing in order to increase
brand awareness,
he just wasn't able to compete with that.
And of course with VPN,
a lot of it comes down to trust.
Do you think that this is going to be a
VPN that is going to keep your data safe,
is well known,
isn't some corn or something.
So that brand awareness
was really important.
And no matter how great his app was,
he couldn't compete with what
was going on in the market.
Yeah, go for it, Mark.
>> Jesse online says, this so
far sounds exactly what I've
been trying to figure out.
I've had many ideas I know would be great,
but no clue how to review the market,
understand my audience and
how to really market in the slightest.
>> Yes, perfect.
Great, thank you for that.
That's encouraging.
Because I was beginning, when you create
these workshops, you think, they're
actually people that are trying to do
this and you get stuck in your own head.
So that's really nice to hear.
Thank you.
Okay, I'll keep going then,
that's encouraging.
So why do we wanna do the market research?
I mean, I think most of us know that
market research is a good thing.
It's a thing you're supposed to do, but
maybe you're a little bit kind of woolly
about kind of the real aims here.
Cuz you've got to know your
aims before you go in.
I'm not a fan of doing things
just because you're supposed to.
If you've watched my course
on user research and testing,
I go on about, well, don't just do testing
because that's what you're supposed to do.
Do testing because you're trying to
get to a particular objective or
learn something in particular.
And the same applies here.
We need to know why we're doing research.
So the first thing is.
We need to define our audience, right?
Market research provides a deeper
insight into the exact niche
that we wanna target because
we're terrible at that.
Example that I've used before in other
courses is I wanna create a task gap,
right?
Because I don't like
the existing task apps.
Now that's gray and
you might have a unique idea and
angle on doing a task app, but
a task app could be aimed at
a professional project manager
that's gonna want one set of things.
A stay-at-home mom that's gonna
want another set of things or
a busy CEO that's gonna
want another set of things.
So you have to really be clear
on who your audience is and
we're gonna do a whole
section on that in a minute.
But secondly, doing your market research
enables us to define the offering,
get a clearer picture about exactly
what we're gonna build initially.
Because again, what happens is we have
all these ideas going around in our head,
or I could do this, or I could do that,
or I could do the other,
and that's overwhelming.
And so we end up just picking the things
that we're most excited about,
which may or may not be the things
that other people are excited about.
So we need to have a better idea of
what actually is worth creating and
market research helps us do that.
It also is a bit of a kind
of wake-up call, really,
to knowing what else is
going on in the market and
identifying some challenges that
we'll face, because you will face.
I remember building an app once and
I honestly believed that there
was nobody else doing it, right?
And that this was a completely new thing.
And it was only,
as I started to talk about it publicly and
put it out there, people started to go,
you mean like this?
And it's like, yeah, do and then somebody
else goes, you'd be like this other app.
And before I knew it, there was three or
four other apps that
did exactly what I did.
And it was like, no.
And it's not like I hadn't Googled,
but it wasn't enough.
And also it helps us to
establish our strategy.
It'll help you to know how
you wanna get to market and
how you're gonna reach people and
all of those kinds of things,
because the scary truth is that
out of those 90% of companies
of startups that fail, 42% of them
fail because there's no market need.
Now, no market need is
a bit of a vague term.
I mean, what does that mean?
But basically it means not enough
people bought the thing, right?
Or there wasn't enough
demand out there for it.
So the big question is,
well, how do we do this?
How do we approach our market research?
Market research,
yes, there are specialists who
specialize in market research.
And I'm presuming within this course,
that if you're sitting
watching a course like this,
you're not trying to launch a product for,
I don't know, Amazon here, right?
This is you with your big idea and you're
not backed with massive venture capital or
a huge company or anything like that.
So you're not about to hire a market
Rieseberg Search specialists.
We wanna talk about stuff
that you can do it yourself,
not have a whole organization do.
So the advice I'm gonna give
is within that premise.
So the very first thing I would encourage
you to do is very broadly define your
niche.
What that niche is, is gonna be kind
of defined by a couple of things.
Firstly, the type of offering
that you've got, right?
So obviously if you're creating a,
I don't know, a recipe app,
then it's not gonna appeal to people
that never cook for themselves.
So there will be some automatic
kind of definition going on there.
But also you might wanna think about
a particular audience that you
want to initially focus on when you
initially launch your product, okay?
Now, I emphasize the word
initially several times there and
there is good reason for that.
A lot of products or SAS apps or
whatever we wanna call
them could have quite broad appeal, okay?
A task app is a great example of that,
there's pretty much all of us need
a task app to some degree, okay?
But don't get into that
thinking to begin with and
it's easy to do because you start
getting excited and you go, these people
would find it really useful as well and
these people would find it really useful.
And that is a problem.
You want to avoid going too
broad with your audience.
The smaller your initial audience,
it feels counterintuitive.
But the smaller your initial
audience within reason,
the increasing likelihood of success and
I'll tell you why.
You have a little pebble of marketing
effort that you can put in, right?
You don't have a multimillion
pound marketing budget.
This is tiny little pebble, imagine that.
And if you throw it into
the ocean of everybody who might
potentially be interested in your app,
it'll disappear and
it won't leave a ripple, right?
But if you take that same little pebble
and throw it into a tiny little puddle
of a small group of people, it will create
a lot of ripples and a lot of effect.
So to bring that analogy down to
actually something practical is for
somebody to express an interest
in your product or service,
they can't just hear about it once, right?
If you're subscribed to front end masters
which obviously you are if you're watching
this, think about how many times you heard
about front end masters before you paid.
The chances are it was more than once.
You didn't just see it but maybe if you're
flush with cash or your boss pays for
it, right?
But if you are paying for it yourself,
the chances are you saw it and
thought, that looks quite interesting.
Okay, I'll come, and you go away and
you think about it and
then maybe you saw, I don't know,
some other person you respect was on it.
Or maybe you saw an ad somewhere else,
or maybe you saw a blog post that they'd
written, or a social media clip or
whatever else, and you heard about it
a few times and then you thought that kept
reminding you and then you bought, right?
Or maybe, you heard about it and
did buy it the first time because
somebody recommended it to you, okay?
And all of that happens
within a small community.
So in other words, if Frontend Masters
tried to appeal to everybody and
had every kind of course in the world,
it would need a massive marketing
budget to reach all these
different audiences all the place.
But because they just
focus down on developers,
it means that they can make sure you've
heard of them multiple times because
it's a relatively contained group of
people, which only go to so many places.
But secondly, there's a good chance that
word of mouth will kick in cuz developers
like to talk to one another or
recommend stuff, so
it amplifies your
marketing message as well.
So, does that make sense
of why you wanna go in?
Yeah, go for it, Mark.
>> Yeah, just comment that,
people think that the Internet is broad so
I should go, I can reach anybody, but
really it's the ultimate like niche
machine if you think about it.
It's like the more targeted,
if you're like, I'm going after
this very specific person because
they have a very specific need.
And I know that the better audience,
you better the audience,
the more you're able to speak
to their very specific needs.
>> And
you might think the audience is too small.
You might get into this mindset of like,
well, if I just go for,
I don't know, Ruby on Rails developers,
that makes me really outdated.
Is Ruby on Rails still trendy?
No, it's all right.
We'll go with Ruby on Rails there.
If I just go, are there enough of those,
but yeah, of course they're, right?
You can support business based on that.
I should have gotten even more niche.
Shouldn't I, really?
Yeah, go for it.
>> [COUGH] We're hearing that Sam Altman
would tell people at Y Combinator to now
go for a large broad audience but
instead find a select group of people who
are passionate about the product
that you are selling.
>> Exactly yeah.
>> They would help you do your marketing.
>> Yeah, and they really will.
If you can get a small group of
people that are really into it and
you're listening to them and you're
interacting with them and stuff like that,
they become your advocates and
they do a lot the hard work for you